[Music]
I'm going to talk about the power of a
word jihad to the vast majority of
practicing Muslims jihad is an internal
struggle for the faith it is a struggle
within struggle against vice sin
temptation lust greed it is a struggle
to try and live a life that is set by
the moral codes written in the Koran in
that original idea the concept of jihad
is as important to Muslims as the idea
of grace is to Christians it's a very
powerful word jihad if you look at it in
that respect and it there's there's a
certain almost mystical resonance to it
and that's the reason why for hundreds
of years
Muslims everywhere have named their
children jihad their daughters as much
as their sons in the same way that say
Christians name their daughters Grace
and Hindus my people name our daughters
bhakti which means in Sanskrit spiritual
worship but they have always been in
Islam a small group a minority who
believe that jihad is not only an
internal struggle but also an external
struggle against forces that would
threaten the faith or the faithful and
some of these people believe that in
that struggle it is sometimes okay to
take up arms and so the thousands of
young Muslim men who flocked to
Afghanistan in the 1980s to fight
against the Soviet occupation of a
Muslim country in their minds they were
fighting a jihad they were doing jihad
and they named themselves the Mujahideen
which is a word that comes from the same
root as jihad and we forget this now but
back then the Mujahideen was celebrated
in this country in America we thought of
them as as holy warriors who were taking
the good fight to the on
Godley communist America gave them
weapons gave them money gave them
support encouragement but within that
group a tiny small group a minority
within a minority within a minority
we're coming up with a new dangerous
conception of jihad and in time this
group would come to be led by Osama bin
Laden and he refined the idea
his idea of jihad was a global war of
terror primarily targeted at the far
enemy of the Crusaders from the West
against America and the things he did in
the pursuit of this jihad was so
horrendous so monstrous and had such
great impact that his definition was the
one that stuck not just here in the West
we didn't know any better
we didn't pause pause to ask we just
assumed that if this insane man and his
psychopathic followers were calling what
they did jihad then that's what jihad
must mean but it wasn't just us even in
the Muslim world his definition of jihad
began to gain acceptance a year ago I
was in Tunis and I met the the mom of a
very small mosque an old man 15 years
ago he named his granddaughter jihad
after the old meaning he hoped that a
name like that would inspire her to live
a spiritual life he told me that after
9/11 he began to have second thoughts he
worried that if he called her by that
name especially outdoors outside in
public he might be seen as endorsing bin
Laden's idea of jihad on Fridays in his
mosque he gave sermons trying to reclaim
the meaning of the word but his
congregants the people who came to his
mosque they had seen the videos they had
seen pictures of the planes going into
the towers of towers coming down there
heard bin Laden say that that was jihad
claimed victory for it and so the old
Imam worried that his words were falling
on deaf ears no one was paying attention
he was wrong some people were paying
attention but for the wrong reasons the
United States at this point was putting
pressure on all its Arab allies
including Tunisia to stamp out extremism
in their societies and this Imam found
himself suddenly in the crosshairs of
the Tunisian intelligence service they'd
never paid him any attention before old
man small mosque but now they began to
pay visits and sometimes they would drag
him in for question and always the same
question why did you name your daughter
your granddaughter jihad why do you keep
using the word jihad in your Friday
sermons do you hate Americans what is
your connection bersama bin Laden so to
the Tunisian intelligence agencies and
and organizations like it all over the
Arab world
she had equaled extremism bin Laden's
definition had become institutionalized
that was the power of that word that he
was able to do and it filled the this
this old Imam it filled him with great
sadness he told me that of bin Laden's
many crimes this was in his mind one
that didn't get enough attention that he
took this word this beautiful idea he
didn't so much appropriate it as
kidnapped it and debased it and
corrupted it and turned it into
something it was never meant to be and
then persuaded all of us that it always
was a global jihad but the good news is
the good news is that the global jihad
is almost over has been loud and defined
it it was dying well before he did and
now it's on its last legs opinion polls
from all over the Muslim world show that
there is very little interest among
Muslims in a global holy war against the
West against the the far enemy the
supply of of young men willing to fight
and die for this cause is dwindling the
supply of money just as important more
important perhaps the supply of money
too
activity is also dwindling the the
wealthy fanatics who were previously
sponsoring this kind of activity are now
less generous what does that mean for us
in the West does it mean we can break
out the champagne wash our hands of it
disengage sleep easy at night
no this engagement is not an option
because if you let local jihad survive
it becomes international jihad and so
there's now a lot of different violent
Jihad's all over the world in Somalia in
Mali in Nigeria in in Iraq in
Afghanistan Pakistan their groups that
claim to be the the inheritors of the
legacy of Osama bin Laden they use his
rhetoric they they even used the brand
name he created for his jihad so there
is now an al Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb there's an al-qaida in the
Arabian Peninsula there is an al-qaeda
in Mesopotamia there are other groups in
Nigeria Boko Haram in in Somalia
al-shabaab and they all pay homage to
Osama bin Laden but if you look closely
they are not fighting a global jihad
they are fighting battles over much
narrower issues usually it has to do
with ethnicity or race or sectarianism
or it's a power struggle more often than
not it's a power struggle in one country
or even a small region within one
country occasionally they will go across
the border from Iraq to Syria from
Nigeria to a sorry from Mali to Algeria
from Somalia to Kenya but they are not
fighting a global jihad against some far
enemy but that doesn't mean that we can
relax I was in Yemen recently where it's
the home of the last al Qaeda franchise
that still aspires to attack America to
attack the West it's old-school al Qaeda
you may remember that these guys they're
the ones who try to send the underwear
and they were using the internet to try
and instigate violence among American
Muslims but they've been distracted
recently last year they took control
over a portion of southern Yemen and ran
it Taliban style and then the Yemeni
military got its act together and
ordinary people rose up against these
guys and drove them up and since then
most of their activities most of their
attacks have been directed at Yemenis so
I think we've come to a point now where
we can say that just like all politics
all jihad is local but that's still not
reason for us to disengage because we've
seen that movie before in Afghanistan
when those Mujahideen defeated the
Soviet Union we disengaged and even
before the fists had gone out of our
celebratory champagne the Taliban had
taken over in Kabul and we said local
jihad
not our problem and then the Taliban
gave the keys of Kandahar to Osama bin
Laden he made it our problem local jihad
if you ignore it becomes global jihad
again the good news is that it doesn't
have to be we know how to fight it now
we have the tools we have the know-how
and we can take the lessons we learned
from the fight against global jihad the
victory against global jihad and apply
those to local jihad what are those
lessons we know who killed bin Laden
SEAL Team six do we know do we
understand who killed bin Laden ISM who
ended the global jihad there lie the
answers to this - the solution to local
gyah who killed bin Laden ism let's
start with bin Laden himself he probably
thought 9/11 was his greatest
achievement in reality it was the
beginning of the end for him he killed
3,000 innocent people and that filled
the Muslim world with horror and
revulsion and what that meant was that
his his idea of jihad could never become
mainstream he condemned
himself to operating on the lunatic
fringe 'as of his own community 9/11
didn't empower him it doomed who killed
bin Laden ISM Abu Musab Zarqawi killed
him
he was the especially sadistic head of
al Qaeda in Iraq who sent hundreds of
suicide bombers to attack not Americans
but Iraqis Muslims Sunni as well as
Shiites any claim that our qaeda had to
being protectors of Islam against the
Western Crusaders was drown in the blood
of Iraqi Muslims who killed Osama bin
Laden the SEAL Team six
who killed bin Laden ISM al Jazeera did
al Jazeera and half a dozen other
satellite news stations in Arabic
because they circumvented the old
state-owned television stations in a lot
of these countries which were designed
to keep information from people al
Jazeera brought information to them
showed them what was being said and done
in the name of their religion exposed
the hypocrisy of Osama bin Laden and al
Qaeda and allowed them gave them the
information that allowed them to come to
their own conclusions
who killed bin Laden ISM the Arab Spring
did because it showed a way for young
Muslims to bring about change in a
manner that Osama bin Laden with his
limited imagination could never have
conceived who defeated the global jihad
the American military the American
soldiers did with their allies fighting
in faraway battle fields and perhaps the
time will come when they get the right
full credit for so all these factors and
and many more besides we don't even
fully understand some of them yet these
came together to defeat a monstrosity as
big as bin Laden ISM the global jihad
you needed this group effort now not all
of these things will work in local jihad
the American military's
going to march into nigeria to take on
Boko Haram and it's unlikely that SEAL
Team six will rappel into the homes of
al-shabaab leaders and take them out but
many of these other factors that were in
play are now even stronger than before
half the work is already done we don't
have to reinvent the wheel the notion of
violent jihad in which more Muslims are
killed than any other kind of people is
already thoroughly discredited we don't
have to go back to that satellite
television and and the internet are
informing and empowering young Muslims
in exciting new ways and the Arab Spring
has produced governments many of them
Islamist governments who know that for
their own self-preservation they need to
take on the extremists in their midst we
don't need to persuade them but we do
need to help them because they haven't
really come to this place before the
good news again is that a lot of the
things they need we already have and we
are very good at giving economic
assistance not just money but expertise
technology know-how private investment
fair terms of trade
medicine education technical support for
training for their police forces to
become more effective for their
anti-terror forces to become more
efficient we've got plenty of these
things some of the other things that
they need we're not very good at giving
maybe nobody is time patience subtlety
understanding these are harder to give I
live in New York now
just this week posters have gone up in
subway stations in New York that
describe jihadis savage but in all the
many years that I have covered the
Middle East I have never been as
optimistic as I am today
that the gap between the Muslim world
and the West is narrowing fast
and one of the many reasons for my
optimism is that because I know there
are millions hundreds of millions of
people Muslims like that old Imam in
Tunis who are reclaiming this word and
restoring it to its original beautiful
purpose bin Laden is dead
bin Laden ISM has been defeated his
definition of jihad can now be expunged
that jihad we can say goodbye good
riddance to the real jihad we can say
welcome back good luck thank you
[Applause]
you